
--- Page 1 ---
You remember August 24, 2006 very well. After
years of discussion, the General Assembly of
the International Astronomical Union decided
to withdraw Pluto's status as the 9th planet of
your solar system. From one day to the next,
only eight planets orbited your sun, Neptune
being the outermost of them.
In the following years a lurid theory was condensed: At the edge of
the solar system must be a hitherto unknown, gigantic celestial
body. The starting point for these assumptions was the data
transmitted by the space probes Voyager 2 and later New
Horizons. Unusual distortions of their measurements and
intermittent interruptions of communication posed a mystery to
the scientists. Initially dismissed as a fantasy, over time many
skeptics were convinced by the conclusive evidence. However, the
data was soon exhausted and no concrete evidence could be
produced.
At the end of their possibilities, the research team around Dr.
Markow started the NAUTILUS project: A manned spaceship was
to be sent out to check the existence of what a new 9th planet
could be. After many setbacks and years of research, the
technology is finally available to complete the mission. All
that remains is the question: With which crew? Volunteer ahead!
--- Page 2 ---
Enter your crew here:
How to use this Logbook:
In this overview you enter your crew. Write down the names of the crew members, the
CREW:
dates of your first and last round of play and how many attempts you have needed in
total. The cross shows you in which crew field of each mission you enter your number
of attempts. The crew at the top of the page, for example, only uses the field on the far
Start: Finish: Attempts: left. Up to 6 crews can note their progress in the Logbook at the same time.
Mission number. The golden frame serves as a When a mission uses Order
CREW:
reminder of the additional rule in the game cards, its number is shown in
for five players starting from mission 25. this icon.
Start: Finish: Attempts:
Here is the mission text. It tells you everything about your 4
current mission. Most of this text tells the story of your
CREW:
adventure. If, however, the text is highlighted like this, it
is a special rule for this mission. Read this text
Start: Finish: Attempts: thoroughly!
CREW: 2
25
Start: Finish: Attempts:
EriRnenmeriunndger a onf dthaes Circle for the If a mission has special rules,
CREW: NDoiststrigesnsa Slpiglänttaclh teilne.. Distress Signal tile. different symbols are listed here.
The highlighted text in the
Once you have completed a mission, enter here how many mission description tells you
attempts you have taken to complete it. If you have circled the more. Some symbols are also
Distress Signal field, increase your number of attempts by 1. explained in more detail in the
Start: Finish: Versuche:
instructions.
If you repeatedly fail or want to skip a mission, you can
also enter "10" here and switch to the next mission. Here you can find all
CREW:
the Order tokens you
need for the current
At the bottom of each page, enter in So after a break you can immediately
mission.
these boxes the total number of see how far you've come. You can
attempts you have taken to reach this also compare your progress with
Start: Finish: Attempts:
point in your adventure. other crews.
2 Total 3
--- Page 3 ---
Congratulations! You have been selected from a variety of 1 You are nearing completion of the preparations. The last 3
applicants to take part in the most exciting, greatest and training phases are the recalibration of the control
most dangerous adventure of mankind: the search for the modules, the reorientation of the communicators and the
unknown 9th planet. As soon as you arrive at the training advanced auxiliary systems of the spacesuits. Nothing
ground for the final tests, you'll be sitting in your first stands in the way of a quick start.
training phase: Team building.
1 4
It quickly turns out that you are perfectly coordinated with 2 Celebrated too soon! One of you is sick and stuck in bed.
each other. Above all, your mental connection, the so-called After everyone has looked at his hand cards, your
drift compatibility, speaks for a successful cooperation. Commander asks everyone about his or her condition. But
No Tricks
Now face the training phases 2 and 3: control technique you may only answer with "Good" or "Bad". Your
and weightlessness. Commander then decides who is ill. The sick crew member
may not win a single trick.
2 5
The training phases follow in quick succession. The 2 After this minor setback, your final training phase is 3
combined Energy Supply and Emergency Prioritization about to begin: understanding with restricted
course requires a high degree of logical thinking in order to communication. For this purpose, a reception dead spot is
understand and apply the links. Your mathematical simulated, which can lead to a variety of circumstances in
background comes in handy here. space. Strengthen your mental connection and pass the
final tests.
?
3 6
4 Total Total 5
--- Page 4 ---
A memorable day! Get ready for takeoff. 10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1- 3 After this little excitement right at the beginning of your 4
LIFT OFF! The completion of your training is just mission, you are now ready to leave the moon behind. You
the beginning of your adventure. A mighty force presses send your status to Earth, start all control and
you into your seats – now there's no turning back. Under measuring instruments, and ignite the engines. This will
ear-splitting noise you leave the ground, the country, truly be a big step. For you and for mankind.
the continent, the planet.
7 10
You have reached lunar orbit, weightlessness sets in - an 3 Your radar systems report a dense meteorite field that will 4
indescribable feeling. Numerous tests and trainings and yet soon intercept your course. The Commander appoints
the joy overwhelms you every time anew. You look back to another crew member to take care of the
the Earth, which was your entire cosmos so far and you recalculation of the course. The task demands the
can already cover it with your thumb. highest concentration, so the particular crew member
cannot communicate in this mission.
8 11
You are suddenly torn from your thoughts when the on- You watch tensely, as you pass relatively close to the 4
board analysis module NAVI interrupts and demands your meteorites. In the excitement you mess up your paperwork,
attention. In the drive electronics, a very small piece of which causes a few minutes of strenuous confusion.
metal has become jammed. To avoid damaging the boards, Immediately after the 1st trick, each of you must draw a
1 Trick with
steady hands are required. A 1-value card must win a trick. random card from the crew member to your right. Then
111111 continue playing normally.
1 1
9 1 11 11 1 12
1 1
6 Total Total 7
--- Page 5 ---
Apparently you were hit by smaller chunks despite course Overall, the shock was more severe than the damage, and
change. At any rate the control module shows a you were able to fix most of it in time. However, the 9th
malfunction on the drive. Perform a thrust test on all drives Control Module, which monitors the life support systems of
1 Trick
to further pinpoint the problem. You must win a trick with your suits, has been severely damaged in the collision and No Tricks
with Each
with
each Rocket card. has failed. You cannot win a trick with a 9-value card.
213243 99 99 99
1 4 9 9
13 2 13 24 3 16 9 99 99 9
1 4 9 9
You are already close enough to Mars to be able to see 4 The damage on the 9th control module is even greater than 2
Olympus Mons, the highest volcano in our solar system, originally thought, so you have to invest significantly more
with the naked eye. You take the opportunity to time in the repair. At the same time, however, you must
photograph it first and then the Martian moons Phobos and keep an eye on your course and send a message to No Tricks
with
Deimos. The sight helps you get over the reception Earth, where your status is eagerly awaited. You are
dead spot which you're currently stuck in. still not allowed to win a trick with a 9-value card. 99 99 99
9 9
?
14 17 9 99 99 9
9 9
You pass Mars and leave the reception dead spot. Your 4 You set course for Jupiter as you fly into a cloud of dust. 5
thoughts turn to chocolate bars when suddenly your Almost at the same moment your communication module
collision module sounds the alarm. Even before you can reacts. At first it shows an amazingly good connection, but
react properly, you are hit by a meteorite. Immediately seal only seconds later it seems to have a total failure. You are
off the four damaged modules and begin the repair process. only allowed to communicate starting with the 2nd trick.
2
15 18
8 Total Total 9
--- Page 6 ---
The dust cloud reveals extraordinary dimensions and the 5 When you're out of the woods, the temperature suddenly 5
longer you are in it, the stranger your communication drops noticeably. All control systems sound the alarm and
module reacts. It fluctuates between crystal clear and you immediately put on your suits. The regulation module
completely incomprehensible. However, the severely barely adapts to the adjustment. Reroute the power supply
impaired periods become longer. You may not to other modules one by one to avoid a total system failure.
communicate until the start of the 3rd trick.
3
19 22
Finally, the cloud clears and the deflections of the Most of the modules are still on emergency power while 5
communication module are noticeably reduced. Before you, you are discussing the cause of the rapid cooling. When
Jupiter presents itself in all its glory. The giant gas giant you pass Callisto, one of the 69 Jupiter moons, you seem
rightly bears its name. Your awe is interrupted as you to have escaped the frost field. At least the readings
notice the two damaged radar sensors. Your Commander have relativized. Reactivate the modules on standby.
determines who receives the orders and carries out the 2 Before you select the Order cards, you may change the
repair. position of two Order tiles.
20 23 X Y
After the repair you will notice that the cloud has brought 5 The unexpected incident has messed up your operations 6
you too close to Jupiter. Its approx. 2.5-fold gravity already quite a bit. Everywhere there is now something to do and
influences your course. To counteract it, you have to work for a moment, each of you uncontrollably wants to
in a concentrated and precise manner to get to the ideal begin at some point. Your Commander takes the initiative
exit point. You hardly notice the reception dead spot. and draws up a plan. In order to be able to proceed in
a structured way, he distributes the individual orders.
?
21 24
10 Total Total 11
--- Page 7 ---
You reach Saturn and pause to admire the grandiose 6 You measure an unusually high level of cosmic radiation. 6
spectacle of the rock tracks that continuously orbit it. It is Seemingly unaffected, you continue your flight, only to find
called the ring planet for a reason. Almost apathetically, that your radio messages either do not arrive at all, or are
you devote yourself to the on-board analysis and sink into very time-delayed at the receiver. It is not possible to
astonishment. Because of the reception dead spot you are work smoothly. You may not communicate until the start
hardly disturbed. If you are playing with five, you can now of the 3rd trick.
use the additional rule for 5 crew members. 3
?
25 28
A loud bang breaks you out of the devout mood. Two Your communication module seems to have suffered more
pieces of rock around Saturn have torn holes into your damage than you initially thought. The repair requires a
ship's hull. The on-board analysis has immediately sealed series of tests and calibrations, which you must perform
off the affected storage area. Both stones are still stuck in 2 Tricks with together and in precise coordination. At no time may a ?
the hull. You must carefully remove them without crew member have won 2 tricks more than another crew
111111
increasing the damage. Two 1-value cards must win 1 1 member. Communication is disrupted.
one trick each.
1 11 11 1
26 1 1 29
You notice that the tear of the hull has has left One part is done, but you postpone the rest of the repair, as 6
consequences. An inspection of the modules you are heading straight for Uranus. Its smooth, pale blue
connected to the storage room shows that the flux surface makes it look almost artificial. You tear yourselves
compensator has been damaged. Although there is away from this fascinating sight, because not all the
currently no problem, a repair is necessary in the long run damage has been repaired yet. You are only allowed to
if you want to return home. Your commander decides communicate starting from the 2nd trick.
3
who will do the repair.
2
27 30
12 Total Total 13
--- Page 8 ---
As you slowly move away from Uranus, you receive a 6 Neptune is already in sight when your ship begins to shake.
message from Earth requesting the collection of metadata Man the stabilizers so you don't lose control. In the
of the Uranus moons. Due to the disruption it's too late, so meantime, your Commander must realign the gravity
you can only see three of the 27 moons – Rosalind, Belinda module. At no time may a crew member have won 2 tricks
and Puck. That'll have to do for now. more than another crew member. Your Commander must
win the first and last trick.
First
& Last
31 34 Trick
Despite the good conditions, it is now noticeable how long 7 Devoutly you reach the outermost planet of our solar 7
you have been travelling together and how all too human system: the ice giant Neptune. Its deep blue makes you
characteristics come to light. In order to avoid a heated shiver. As you slowly pass Neptune, you receive
confrontation, everyone delves into their work. Your another message from Earth. The spacecraft Alpha 5 orbits
Commander takes over the organization and distributes Neptune, but has damaged sensors. Locate and repair them.
the individual orders.
32 35
We got a field assignment coming up! One of the hatches is You use one of the rare calm moments to find out more
7
defective and must be repaired. But leaving the ship is about each other. With all the minor and major
always a risk. After everyone has looked at their hand of emergencies, the responsibility on your shoulders, and the
cards, your Commander asks everyone for their uncertainty of the outcome of your adventure, the tension
Exactly
willingness. But you can only answer with "Yes" or "No".
1 Trick has crept to the core of each individual. It's good to just sit
Your Commander then selects a crew member. The
together, talk and listen. Relieved of a burden, you then
selected crew member must win exactly 1 trick, but not
dedicate yourself to the challenges ahead. Your
with a Rocket card.
Commander distributes the individual orders.
33 36
14 Total Total 15
--- Page 9 ---
You reach the dwarf planet Pluto. Many years ago it You are now looking closely at the object, but you are still 8
would have been the 9th planet. You indulge in memories uncertain. What appears in front of you could also be a
of things your fathers used to explain to you on Sundays Pluto moon. No, that's not a moon! You have found it! The
and think about changeability. Nevertheless, the ship must 9th planet! Boundless euphoria spreads within you and
be kept on course. The Commander decides who takes makes you forget all the hardships. The surface scan of the
care of it. planet suggests a solid crust. That would mean that it is not
4
another gas giant, but walkable. A fantastic opportunity
opens up. Before you start choosing the Order cards, you
37
may place an Order tile on another order without an
Order tile.
You reach the heliopause, the edge of our solar system. If 8
the calculations prove to be true, the 9th planet can't be far.
An intense tingling is spreading, the hour of truth is
X X
approaching. As your instruments bounce, you almost jump 40
off your seats. But unfortunately it is only a disruption.
You are only allowed to communicate starting from the
3rd trick.
3
You adjust the engines and prepare for landing. Due to the
38 completely new conditions, one of you will have to
coordinate the landing. After everyone has looked at their
hand of cards, your Commander will ask everyone for
their willingness. However, you may only answer "Yes" or
That must be it! The displayed readings of your modules 8
"No". Your Commander then selects a person. Your
can only be generated by really gigantic objects. The effects
mission is that this person only wins the first and last Only 1st and
are so massive that even your radio signal is
Last Trick
trick. Since only the thrusters are used for position
interrupted. Recalibrate your instruments and find out
correction, both tricks may not be won with Rocket cards.
what's really behind it.
?
39 41
16 Total Total 17
--- Page 10 ---
The planet is extremely cold and inhospitable, but seems 9 The impact is massive! You are strapped into your seats and 9
habitable. You notice an area that seems to elude your feel like you're everywhere at the same time. Colors and
instruments. The closer you get to this anomaly, the more shapes change, light feels like a swirling mass that behaves
glaring the measurement errors become. What presents itself like an intelligent being and envelops you. You focus on
to you transcends your knowledge of science. At least you your displays and try not to lose your mind.
can roughly narrow down the phenomenon, because the
results normalize when you move away.
42 45
In the name of science, you venture closer. The laws of 9 While you are faced with an incredible number of
gravitation seem to reverse the closer you get to the sensations, you still react instinctively to sources of danger.
All Pink
anomaly and you anchor yourself to the planet's surface When all the main modules of the ship suddenly shut down Cards
with vibranium hooks for safety. Your Commander secures during the jump, the red warning lights tear you out of your
the rest of the crew and distributes the individual orders. trance-like state. Your mission is for the crew member to
The results allow only one conclusion: You have discovered the left of the one with the pink 9 to win all the pink
a wormhole. cards. Declare who owns the pink 9.
43 46
Until now, wormholes were at best theoretical constructs You are at the end of your rope. The jump now feels like a 10
and now you are here, right in front of it. It overshadows prison in which you can no longer distinguish between
you like a black monolith - incomprehensible, but with a reality and imagination. Your body screams that you can
enormous gravitational pull. You send a message to Earth 1 Trick Each barely stand 10 seconds longer, but your mind questions
with
and prepare the engines for the jump. Each Rocket card how long 10 seconds are in actuality. You count them down
must win a trick. First the 1-Rocket, then the 2, the 3 and – and suddenly burst out of the wormhole.
213243
1 4
finally the 4.
44 47
2 13 24 3
1 4
18 Total Total 19
--- Page 11 ---
You hardly have time to orient yourself. All at once it is 3 The way back is much more complicated than expected.
extremely hot everywhere. The on-board analysis Some modules are permanently damaged and you fight
immediately puts the entire ship at the highest risk level. against the immense gravitational pull of the sun. With
Only Tricks
The first modules fall victim to the radical temperature your last reserves, you can no longer afford to make a
1 to 4
in the Last
fluctuation. Even in your regulated suits, you will break out mistake under these conditions – the way home must be
Trick
into sweats within seconds. You need to activate the precisely timed. You must first use the gravity deflection to
emergency protocol, extend the heat shields and build create the jump. After that, the ship modules must be kept
up a greater distance to the heat source as quickly under control and the approach to Earth initiated. In the
as possible. The order must be won in the last trick. end, landing on Earth requires no less attention than any
other maneuver. Everyone looks at their hand of cards. A
crew member must win the first 4 tricks. Another crew
member must win the last trick. The remaining crew
members must win all tricks in between. Your
Commander asks everyone for his preferred task, then
Only Last
48 you decide together as a crew who should take over Trick
which position. But don't tell them anything about your
hand of cards.
When you come to your senses, the situation has returned
10
to normal. You were barely able to take the necessary steps
before you collapsed from exhaustion. You locate your 50
location and can hardly believe it. You are in orbit of Venus!
The wormhole is a direct link between the 9th planet and
Venus, the 2nd planet. This also explains the extreme heat,
because Venus is much closer to the sun than Earth. It takes
a moment until it dawns on you: You can go home! Check
all 10 main modules, but pay special attention to life
support, drive and communication. Set course for Earth.
49
20 Total Total 21
--- Page 12 ---
You have landed safely on Earth. Your surprising return has
triggered a media response beyond compare. Your
jump through the wormhole spreads like wildfire
on all continents – it's the topic of conversation. The
reunion with your families and friends makes you forget
almost all the hardships and after the long time in space
you enjoy the feeling of finally being home again.
The insights and data brought by your journey soon bring
forth spectacular theories. Through the wormhole in
relative proximity to the Earth, the 9th planet can be
reached in no time. A deeper analysis has confirmed that its
surface structure would actually be suitable for
colonization. Your discovery thus opens up unimagined
possibilities. Future astronauts could first be taken to the
9th planet and start their actual mission from a planetary
station built there.
Thus, when space exploration begins at the edge of our
solar system, what was previously considered science
fiction finally seems feasible: interstellar travel. You have
truly helped usher in a new age of space travel!